---
title: TRG 7.00 - Recurring activities for each PR
---

| Status | Created     | Post-History                                                            |
| ------ | ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Active | 15-Aug-2025 | Update of header years, add examples and further IP check clarification |
| Active | 25-Apr-2024 | Updates for CC-BY-4.0 license                                           |
| Active | 20-Jul-2023 | References to TRG 7.07, 7.08 updated                                    |
|        | 13-Apr-2023 | Moved from OSS Development                                              |

## Why

Eclipse Tractus-X is an open source project hosted by the Eclipse Foundation licensed under the Apache License 2.0 ([Apache-2.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)). For non-code the default license is the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International ([CC-BY-4.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/CC-BY-4.0.html)).

The legal obligations of the content must be observed in all forms of which the content is available.

:::info

The requirements described here must be met for each contribution.

:::

## Description

This is a summary of the most important requirements for OSS governance that you must follow.
Before submitting a PR, contributors should verify compliance with the requirements. The reviewing committer can only accept a PR if it is compliant.

### Keep the following updated when creating a CatenaX / Tractus-X relevant release tag

- all requirements listed below
- IP checks for 3rd party content: **ALL** 3rd party content has the be approved by the Eclipse Foundation => in the DEPENDENCIES are only libraries with status "approved"

### Keep the following updated for each pull request to the default branch (main)

- Legal Documentation: [TRG 7.01](/docs/release/trg-7/trg-7-01)
- License and copyright header: [TRG 7.02](/docs/release/trg-7/trg-7-02)
  - must be present in every file if possible. Example files below
    - infrastructure as code and test data like `.yaml`
    - code files like `.java`, `.py`, `.go`
    - diagram as code like `.puml`
  - the year in the copyright section per company must be set to the year of their first contribution
- IP checks for project content: [TRG 7.03](/docs/release/trg-7/trg-7-03)
  - for each PR containing more than 1000 relevant lines there **must** be an approved [IP review for Code Contributions](/docs/oss/issues#eclipse-gitlab-ip-issue-tracker) before the contribution can be pushed/merged. This applies especially to contributors. Committers - per committer agreement - are trusted to consider their own IP and third-party IP correctly. They may exceed that limit but are heavily encouraged to create an IP issue for large PRs or more complex IP questions.
- IP checks for 3rd party content: [TRG 7.04](/docs/release/trg-7/trg-7-04)
  - DEPENDENCIES file is up-to-date and reflects the current use of the 3rd party content
  - all libraries listed there should have the status "approved"
  - no libraries with status "rejected"
  - for libraries with status "restricted", the according IP issues must be present (issue number in the source column)
- Legal information for distributions: [TRG 7.05](/docs/release/trg-7/trg-7-05)
- Legal notice for end user content: [TRG 7.06](/docs/release/trg-7/trg-7-06)
- Legal notice for non-code: [TRG 7.07](/docs/release/trg-7/trg-7-07), [TRG 7.08](/docs/release/trg-7/trg-7-08)
