---
title: TRG 7.03 - IP checks for project content
sidebar_position: 4
---

| Status | Created     | Post-History                  |
|--------|-------------|-------------------------------|
| Active | 25-Apr-2024 | Updates for CC-BY-4.0 license |
| Active | 13-Apr-2023 | Moved from OSS Development    |

## Why

Eclipse Tractus-X is an open source project hosted by the Eclipse Foundation licensed under the Apache License 2.0 ([Apache-2.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)). For non-code the default license is the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International ([CC-BY-4.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/CC-BY-4.0.html)).

The legal obligations of the content must be observed in all forms of which the content is available.

This page contains information about legal obligations and checks of your project content. The source of truth is always the [Eclipse Foundation Project Handbook](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/#ip-project-content).

:::info

The requirements described here **must** be met for each contribution.

The checks and reviews described here are all about **IP issues**, it does not cover content reviews in the sense of meeting the specification, completeness of features, etc. [More about the Tractus-X review process.](/docs/oss/code-reviews)

:::

## Description

Project content is roughly said, all content you created, e.g. code, scripts, documentation and configuration files.
See the exact explanation for **project content** in the [Handbook](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/#ip-project-content).

### Checking contributions by a Eclipse contributor

Contributions by Eclipse contributors (signed [ECA](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/#contributing-eca)) must be received via an Eclipse Foundation channel (e.g., GitHub pull request, attachment on an issue).

A Tractus-X committer **can** accept the contribution without further investigation if all of the following conditions are met:

- Was developed from scratch; written 100% by Eclipse contributors (no copied code, e.g. from StackOverflow or generated AI code e.g. from ChatGPT)
- Was submitted under the terms of the project license (e.g. legal doc, copyright & license header)
- Contains no cryptography; and
- It contains fewer than 1,000 lines of code, configuration files, and other forms of source code.

If not, a project committer **must** engage with the IP Team to request an [IP review for Code Contributions](/docs/oss/issues#eclipse-gitlab-ip-issue-tracker) by the IP Team before the contribution is pushed/merged.

Additionally, check if the DEPENDENCY file is up-to-date, see [also](/docs/release/trg-7/trg-7-04):

- Check for changes of the used libraries (e.g. pom files, package-lock.json, ...)
- Check for libraries with status "rejected", if present, the contribution must be rejected
- Check for libraries with status "restricted" **AND** no IP issues have been created (no issue number is present in the source column), if so a project committer **must** create the [IP reviews for 3rd party libraries](/docs/oss/issues#eclipse-gitlab-ip-issue-tracker)

### Contributions by a Tractus-X committer

Contributions made by Eclipse Tractus-X committers do not require review by the Eclipse IP Team and can be pushed directly into a project repository.

Recommended way:

- Push code to your feature branch
- Open PR to default branch
