---
title: TRG 7.06 - Legal notice for end user content
---

| Status | Created     | Post-History  |
|--------|-------------|---------------|
| Draft  | 13-Apr-2023 | New           |

## Why

Eclipse Tractus-X is an open source project hosted by the Eclipse Foundation licensed under the [Apache License 2.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/Apache-2.0). The legal obligations of the content must be observed in all forms of which the content is available.

All products delivered by the project—including executables, websites, documentation, and help must include certain notices. An executable might, for example, provide this information in an About Dialog; documentation might include a notice in either the pre- or post-amble, or a website might provide this information in a common footer, or a dedicated page.

(From: [Eclipse Foundation Project Handbook](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/#legaldoc-end-user))

## Description

### Frontend Components

Add an About Dialog (or similar) with the following information:

- Copyright statements
- License
- Trademarks owned by the Eclipse Foundation on behalf of the project
- The source code repositories
- Used 3rd party libraries
- When applicable — a cryptography notice

The information can be provided in a static way or you can link directly to the source repository as they already contain your legal information.

:::info

The links to your repository have to reference the tagged version (*) the component delivery has been created / build from!

:::

Example:

    [Your product name](URL to the YOUR repository)
    * License: Apache-2.0
    * License Path: <URL to the Apache License in your repository (*)>
    * NOTICE: <URL to the NOTICE file in your repository (*)>
    * Source URL: <URL to the your repository (*)>
    * Commit ID: <the commit id the component delivery has been created / build from>

In order to align with the overall style guide, it's recommended to use the About card provided in the [Shared UI Components](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cx-portal-shared-components) npm library maintained by the portal product. Please note that the About card is only available in this library from version 1.5.0-RC1 onwards. As reference for the placement of this card in frontend apps: in the portal it has been integrated in an About page which is reachable from the footer.

Regarding usage of this About card, it's recommended to add a json file to your frontend project to be imported for the real content. As some of the content can only be determined in the build pipeline, you could add a json file as reference containing placeholder values. Those placeholder values could then be replaced, by script, just before the build within the build pipeline.

### Documentation

For documentation the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) is recommended:

- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0
- [CC-BY-4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode)

Documentation should include a notice in either the pre- or post-amble, with the following information:

    * License (SPDX-License-Identifier)
    * License Path: <URL>
    * Copyright statements
    * Source URL: <URL to the your repository> **OR** Download URL:

The license needs to be added to the repository:

- next to the documentation, e.g. in a docs folder
- or if the documentation is distributed across the repository, add a "licenses" folder at root level and place the license here

**NOTE:** This information has to be readable IN the document, so e.g. adding a standard Copyright / License header in an md file as comments in NOT sufficient.
