---
title: TRG 8.01 - KIT General
sidebar_position: 1
---

:::caution
Proposed release date: "mandatory after": 19th of May 2023
:::

| Status     | Created      | Post-History                           |
|------------|--------------|----------------------------------------|
| Draft      | 26-Oct-2023  | Initial contribution                   |

## Why

KIT means Keep It Together. A KIT contains all the artefacts that are relevant to participate in the Catena-X data space as an operator, data provider or solution / app provider. These stakeholders have one place with all the information they need. For example an explaination of an API, the specification of it and the deployment instructions. The target of a KIT should be that you have no need to visit any other information source.

A detailed explaination can be found here:
https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/developer

This TRG serves to maintain a **consistent structure** and ensure content **quality** for the stakeholders.

## Description

For providing a KIT to the Eclipse project Tractus-X please be aware of the "getting started" as a contributor.

Prerequisites:
https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/oss/getting-started

- **TRG 8.02 KIT Graduation** : A KIT is always structured the same way and follows three graduation stages
- **TRG 8.03 KIT Artefacts** : Each of the artefacts in a KIT are explained with examples
- **TRG 8.04 KIT Structure** : The project structure inside the repository and the adjustments that are needed for Docusaurus 



Describe the TRG on how to do the TRG. Provide a golden path: In best case with code example or/and step by step guide.

00 = general introduction
01 = Graduation w. Versioning
- Repository not needed - just when .. 

02 = Artefacts
- Reference implementation would reference to Trg 2.04
- API via Swagger UI
- 
03 = Structure 
