---
title: TRG 1.07 - End-User Manual (User Assistance)
sidebar_position: 1
---

:::caution
Proposed release date: 15th of January 2024
:::

| Status     | Created      | Post-History                           |
|------------|--------------|----------------------------------------|
| Draft - MISSING EXTERNAL INFORMATION  | 10-Jan-2024  | Transfered from Release Acceptance Criteria into TRG|

## Why

End-User Manual is essential for providing user assistance and ensuring a positive user experience.
>Who is the audience/adressant of the document?
>```docs``` Folder

## Description

- End-User Manual is available with the software at the same time.
- End-User Manual is correct and up to date; English is a must.
- The documentation is of appropriate maturity to be handed over to any Operations Company with global business practice intentions.
- In Markdown format. Link to the document available. Must point to the leading repository within Tractus-X.

De-central:
- MD files in Tractus-X repo.

> specify Location of MD File


## Best Practice

- Schedule an appointment with Architect to obtain approval prior to Gate review.
- Provide a link to documentation as early as possible and mark changes to the previous version (if applicable); expect optimization loops based on feedback.

User assistance ensures that, for example, administrators get all the information they need to accomplish their tasks with the software. Refer to an administration guide, which covers "install/deploy, configure the software" – as appropriate for the type of software and the information needs of the target group(s). UI text and embedded help complete the User assistance.