---
title: TRG 1.10 - Hosting API
---

| Status | Created       | Post-History     |
|--------|---------------|------------------|
| Draft  | 17-April-2024 | Initial release  |

## Why

The purpose of this guideline is to establish a standardized process for hosting APIs using GitHub Pages within our GitHub organization. This ensures consistency, transparency, and accessibility of API documentation, while also promoting collaboration among teams responsible for API development.

## Description

Products willing to publish API hosted on dedicated Tractus-X repository using Github Pages need to adhere to following rules:

### Requirements

- **OpenAPI Specification**: Application teams are responsible for generating OpenAPI specifications for their APIs.
- **Specification File Naming Convention**: OpenAPI specification files should follow the naming convention `Productname_APIversion_openapi.yaml`, where `Productname` represents the name of the product or service associated with the API, `APIversion` i.e "v1.2.3".
- **Versioning**: OpenAPI specification files must be versioned to track changes effectively. A new version needs to be attached to a GitHub release as an asset.
- **GitHub Release**: Application teams must create a GitHub release for each version of the API. The OpenAPI specification file(s) should be added as assets to the release.

Automation picks up OpenAPI once per day at night, generates Swagger UI documentation and publishes it.
Your API Swagger UI documentation will be available  at:

eclipse-tractusx.github.io/api-hub/productname/api_version/swagger-ui/

---

## Best Practice

To automate the process of adding OpenAPI specification files to GitHub releases, teams can utilize GitHub Actions. Below is an example of a GitHub Actions that adds the OpenAPI specification file as an asset to a GitHub release:

```yml
      - name: Upload OpenAPI spec to release
        if: ${{ steps.release.outputs.release_created }}
        env:
          GH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        run: gh release upload ${{ steps.release.outputs.tag_name }} docs/product_apiversion_openapi.yaml
```
