"use strict";(self.webpackChunkeclipse_tractusx_github_io=self.webpackChunkeclipse_tractusx_github_io||[]).push([[44667],{87303:e=>{e.exports=JSON.parse('{"blogPosts":[{"id":"community-office-hour-2024-05-03","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-05-03","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-05-03-community-hour.md","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-05-03","description":"Office Hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-05-03T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"May 3, 2024","tags":[{"label":"community","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/community"},{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Sebastian Bezold","title":"Consortia System Team Member","url":"https://github.com/SebastianBezold","imageURL":"https://github.com/SebastianBezold.png","key":"sebastian_bezold"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"community-office-hour-2024-05-03","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-05-03","authors":["sebastian_bezold"],"tags":["community","meeting-minutes"]},"nextItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-04-26","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-04-26"}},"content":"## Office Hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### System team\\n\\n- Support needed for overarching `CHANGELOG` creation for release 24.05. If interested, please get in contact with Stephan Bauer\\n\\n### Security team\\n\\n- n/a\\n\\n### FOSS\\n\\n- Committer Election for [Arno Wei\xdf](https://github.com/arnoweiss) concluded successfully. Congratulations!\\n- [Committer Election](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/automotive.tractusx/elections/election-lucas-capellino-committer-eclipse-tractus-x) for [Lucas Capellino](https://github.com/ds-lcapellino) open for voting\\n\\n### Open planning / community\\n\\n- We are looking for committers to help with the Release QG Check Review for the upcoming release. Please reach out to [Roland](https://github.com/RolaH1t) and [Siegfried](https://github.com/Siegfriedk) if you are interested.\\n- Check out the meeting [invitations for open meetings](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/community/open-meetings/#one-time-meetings) regarding planning for release 24.12\\n\\n### Discussions\\n\\n- Are there defined deadlines for release 24.08 -> No one in the meeting did know of one yet\\n- Interoperability and Thread Modelling checks in 24.05?\\n  - You can approach the Security Team via issue on [sig-security](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/sig-security)\\n  - Checks, that have been documented in a Consorita Confluence instance, could still take place, but a transparent format should be considered.\\n    Some Teams already documented on GitHub."},{"id":"community-office-hour-2024-04-26","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-04-26","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-04-26-community-hour.md","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-04-26","description":"Office Hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-04-26T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"April 26, 2024","tags":[{"label":"community","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/community"},{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Fabian Gr\xfcn","title":"Consortia System Team Member","url":"https://github.com/fagru3n","imageURL":"https://github.com/fagru3n.png","key":"fabian_gruen"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"community-office-hour-2024-04-26","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-04-26","authors":["fabian_gruen"],"tags":["community","meeting-minutes"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-05-03","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-05-03"},"nextItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-04-19","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-04-19"}},"content":"## Office Hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### System team\\n\\n- We moved from the former [Miro](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVOEDsHAI=/) board to the new Board within our [Eclipse Tractus-X GitHub organization projects](https://github.com/orgs/eclipse-tractusx/projects/61) and if you would like to give Feedback feel free to state it in the [draft issue](https://github.com/orgs/eclipse-tractusx/projects/61/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=61096455)\\n- Now you can state everytime your topic for the next office hour as a draft issue for each open meeting like the \\"Office Hour\\" as described in the info section of the [board](https://github.com/orgs/eclipse-tractusx/projects/61?pane=info)\\n\\n### Security team\\n\\n- [Rohan](https://github.com/RoKrish14) will resume work on Monday, 13-May Alternate contact: [Lokesh Gujre](https://github.com/ZFLokesh) , [Tim Herres](https://github.com/BANANAS1337)\\n- Bug bounty program is still in the works, but we are making progress on it see [issue](https://github.com/orgs/eclipse-tractusx/projects/61?pane=issue&itemId=61110062)\\n\\n### FOSS\\n\\n- Committer Election for [Arno Wei\xdf](https://github.com/arnoweiss)  open for [voting](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/automotive.tractusx/elections/election-arno-wei%C3%9F-committer-eclipse-tractus-x)\\n- Please check out the statements to the \\"Use of AI\\" in one of our Eclipse Office Hour [sessions](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/calendar/#2024-04-11)\\n- OCX Conference - Call for speakers is open! Submit your talk [here](https://ocx.eclipse.org/2024/cfp)\\n- Friendly reminder to the Eclipse Office hours about the process and shared information see [here](https://github.com/orgs/eclipse-tractusx/projects/61/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=61090283)\\n- Friendly reminder to check our product notice sections in your documentation and update it if necessary a little example was found within the KIT documentation see [here](https://github.com/orgs/eclipse-tractusx/projects/61/views/1?pane=issue&itemId=61092600)\\n\\n### Open planning / community\\n\\n- We are looking for committers to help with the Release QG Check Review for the upcoming release. Please reach out to [Roland](https://github.com/RolaH1t) and [Siegfried](https://github.com/Siegfriedk) if you are interested.\\n\\n### Discussions\\n\\n- n/a"},{"id":"community-office-hour-2024-04-19","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-04-19","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-04-19-office-hour.md","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-04-19","description":"Office Hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-04-19T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"April 19, 2024","tags":[{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"},{"label":"community","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/community"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Gabor Almadi","title":"Consortia System Team Member","url":"https://github.com/almadigabor","imageURL":"https://github.com/almadigabor.png","key":"almadi_gabor"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"community-office-hour-2024-04-19","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-04-19","authors":["almadi_gabor"],"tags":["meeting-minutes","community"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-04-26","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-04-26"},"nextItem":{"title":"Commiter Meeting 12.04.2024","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/committer-meeting-12-04-2024"}},"content":"## Office Hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### System team\\n\\n- n/a\\n\\n### Security team\\n\\n- An updated list of Security related TRGs are available after [this PR](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/.github/pull/22) has been merged\\n\\n### FOSS\\n\\n- The footer of the [Eclipse Tractus-X website](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/) have been updated\\n- Community days are getting closer, more info can be found on [this page](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/blog/community-days-05-2024)\\n\\n### Open planning / community\\n\\n- New dates with blockers will be added to the website for release 24.12 soon, keep an eye on them! There will be a news entry when they are available\\n- Starting with the next release (24.05) QG4 reviews will be mandatory to do in pairs every\\n  committer can get familiar with the process. A committer can\'t review their \\"own\\" products\\n\\n### Discussions\\n\\n- You can read about Eclipse roles and how to become one [here](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/oss/contributor-committer#committer)\\n- There is a [new board work in progress](https://github.com/orgs/eclipse-tractusx/projects/61/views/1#) on GitHub that could be a replacement for the current\\n  Miro board we use for the Office Hour\\n- Kubernetes 1.30 is available now, but consortia clusters are still on 1.27 (which is the LTS \\n  version). This should be aligned as [TRG5.10](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/release/trg-5/trg-5-10#description) describes our goal otherwise.\\n- For release 24.05 you can [open an issue for security assessment](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/sig-security/issues/new/choose) in the sig-security repository.\\n  This support won\'t be available starting with release 24.08\\n- There is a problem currently with the calendar files on the website for. It is\\n  being investigated and an update will be provided soon."},{"id":"committer-meeting-12-04-2024","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/committer-meeting-12-04-2024","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-04-12-committer-meeting.md","title":"Commiter Meeting 12.04.2024","description":"Committer meeting - meeting minutes","date":"2024-04-12T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"April 12, 2024","tags":[{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"},{"label":"community","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/community"},{"label":"committer-meeting","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/committer-meeting"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Stephan Bauer","title":"Platform Domain Manager","url":"https://github.com/stephanbcbauer","key":"stephan_bauer"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"committer-meeting-12-04-2024","title":"Commiter Meeting 12.04.2024","authors":["stephan_bauer"],"tags":["meeting-minutes","community","committer-meeting"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-04-19","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-04-19"},"nextItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-04-12","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-04-12"}},"content":"## Committer meeting - meeting minutes\\n\\n### Open Planning Participation of committers\\n\\nThe open planning is one of the most important meetings. I think 14 (of 41) committers were present, but only two used their voice ;) what about the others?\\n\\n=> Maybe we should talk more beforehand, about the importance of the meeting. Responsibilities and expectations of attendance.\\n\\n### Label structure\\n\\nThe labels on the features are very important for dependencies and filtering. Yes we have a lot, but we need more ;) but on the other hand we can also delete some ;)\\n\\n**Suggestions:**\\n\\n#### New needed\\n\\n- ssi\\n- data-sovereignty\\n- policy-hub\\n- policy-registry\\n- issuer-component\\n- authority-registry\\n\\n=> discussed -> create the labels\\n\\n- open-discussions (color: red)\\n- Prep-P14 -> maybe Prep-R2412 -> do we need the specific prep label?\\n- Prep-P15\\n- Standards (marks tickets which have impact on standards)\\n- Breaking Change (marks breaking change tickets)\\n\\n#### Changes needed\\n\\n- miw => rename to identity-wallet\\n\\n#### Delete (probably we need to discuss this once since a deletion has impacts\u2026)\\n\\n- kit (reason: each kit has an own label already)\\n- foss\\n- go\\n- PI12 (ideally we just inactive it to not lose it on the old tickets)\\n- Prep-P11 (ideally we just inactive it to not lose it on the old tickets)\\n- Prep-P12 (ideally we just inactive it to not lose it on the old tickets)\\n- Project management\\n- Test results\\n  \\n#### Additionally I like to suggest a clear color coding\\n\\n- All Product labels - ocean blue\\n- All Prep-Pxx label \u2013 grey\\n- All highlight labels \u2013 red\\n- All UseCase labels \u2013 green -> can we delete this?\\n- All Expert group labels - yellow\\n\\n=> HTML color code is used\\n\\n### Clean Board\\n\\nMy feeling is, we will have round about 60 features for 24.08 -> all good. Happy about it. But on the board itself we have more than 200. I understand its good to have some features in inbox/backlog... but i think the gap is to big ... and i think a lot of them could be deleted ;(\\n\\n=> discussed and decided: Friendly reminder -> after a specific amount ot time the issues are deleted automatically\\n\\n### Views an project board\\n\\nThe views (tabs) should be cleaned up) which views are still needed?\\n\\n- Feature view (issuetype `feature`) -> for Expert Groups / Committees / Developer\\n- QGate View (issuetype `realease_ac`)\\n- ???\\n\\n### Future workingmodel\\n\\nInstead of miro we could work with GitHub Project as agenda/issuetracking. e.g. [example board](https://github.com/orgs/eclipse-tractusx/projects/61)\\n\\n=> lets try it\\n\\n### Custom Attribute\\n\\nSince we work together e.V/Open Source it would be beneficial if we could map the features to the related expert (groups) therefore i would like to discuss a custom attribute, which holds the related committee/expertgroup (dedicated list) -> This would help to filter and also get a better feeling\\n\\n=> prepare a poc -> Tom , Stephan\\n\\n### Featurequality\\n\\nSince sometimes the quality (how is a feature described, did you clarify your dependencies, did you talk to your committer, is the time allocated) i would like to extend the feature template to guide a little bit more. For example a checklist like:\\n\\n- \\\\[ \\\\] i have talked to dependent components\\n- \\\\[ \\\\] i have talked to my committers\\n- \\\\[ \\\\] i will contribute on this features\\n- ...\\n\\n-> mention the release process via link in the template, keep the template simple\\n-> link the contribution guidelines"},{"id":"community-office-hour-2024-04-12","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-04-12","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-04-12-community-hour.md","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-04-12","description":"Office Hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-04-12T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"April 12, 2024","tags":[{"label":"community","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/community"},{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Harald Zierer","title":"Consortia System Team Member","url":"https://github.com/hzierer","key":"harald_zierer"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"community-office-hour-2024-04-12","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-04-12","authors":["harald_zierer"],"tags":["community","meeting-minutes"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Commiter Meeting 12.04.2024","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/committer-meeting-12-04-2024"},"nextItem":{"title":"Security Office Hour 2024-04-11","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/security-office-hour-2024-04-11"}},"content":"## Office Hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### System team\\n\\n- Number of previous KIT versions of the home page have been [reduced](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io/pull/840). (this speeds up the compile process by 3,5x)\\n- System team is working on collecting the OpenAPI specs (as alternative to SwaggerHub)\\n\\n\\n### Security team\\n\\n- Invicti [DAST](https://www.invicti.com/learn/dynamic-application-security-testing-dast/) scans are available now. They are not part of the next QG.\\n- Heads up regarding the *XZ backdoor awareness mail* on the mailing list\\n\\n\\n### FOSS\\n\\n- Committer elections are important to prevent hostile project takeover (especially in the wake of the [XZ Utils backdoor](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-3094) )\\n\\n### Open planning / community\\n\\n- n/a\\n\\n### Discussions\\n\\n- Reminder that there will be a \\"tandem mode\\" review for next QGate:\\n  - one reviewer from System team and one committer from the projects for each QG Check\\n  - the \\"project committer\\" can not review his/her one project"},{"id":"security-office-hour-2024-04-11","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/security-office-hour-2024-04-11","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-04-11-security-hour.md","title":"Security Office Hour 2024-04-11","description":"Security Office Hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-04-11T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"April 11, 2024","tags":[{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"},{"label":"security","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/security"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Rohan Krishnamurthy","title":"Consortia Security Team Member","url":"https://github.com/RoKrish14","key":"rohan_krishnamurthy"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"security-office-hour-2024-04-11","title":"Security Office Hour 2024-04-11","authors":["rohan_krishnamurthy"],"tags":["meeting-minutes","security"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-04-12","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-04-12"},"nextItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-04-05","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-04-05"}},"content":"## Security Office Hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### Announcements\\n\\n- SAST: CodeQL workflows seems successfully well integrated\\n-\\tKICS, Trivy, GitGuardian and Dependabot tools will continue as it is.\\n-\\tNo new updates"},{"id":"community-office-hour-2024-04-05","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-04-05","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-04-05-community-hour.md","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-04-05","description":"Office Hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-04-05T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"April 5, 2024","tags":[{"label":"community","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/community"},{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Sebastian Bezold","title":"Consortia System Team Member","url":"https://github.com/SebastianBezold","imageURL":"https://github.com/SebastianBezold.png","key":"sebastian_bezold"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"community-office-hour-2024-04-05","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-04-05","authors":["sebastian_bezold"],"tags":["community","meeting-minutes"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Security Office Hour 2024-04-11","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/security-office-hour-2024-04-11"},"nextItem":{"title":"Security Office Hour 2024-03-28","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/security-office-hour-2024-03-28"}},"content":"## Office Hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### System team\\n\\n- Several TRGs in Draft\\n  - See [TRG 0](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/release/trg-0/)\\n  - Dedicated PRs will be raised to gather feedback before publishing\\n\\n### Security team\\n\\n- Veracode license finally expired\\n  - Dashboards still accessible\\n  - No new scans can be run\\n  - CodeQL is the replacement\\n- Security TRGs live. See the \\"TRG 8 - Security\\" section\\n  in [Release Guidelines](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/release)\\n\\n### FOSS\\n\\n- n/a\\n\\n### Open planning / community\\n\\n- n/a\\n\\n### Discussions\\n\\n- Dependabot PRs\\n  - In general: keep your dependencies up to date. Keep the `DEPENDENCIES` file in mind. Ask committers for help, if you\\n    don\'t have one in your team.\\n  - Specifically Docker base images: If dependabot suggests to upgrade the base image to a new major library version,\\n    that you do not support. Ask a committer to tell dependabot to ignore the dependency\\n  - Specifically Chart Releaser Action: Should not be an issue, but we can investigate if the upgrade would raise\\n    issues (`1.4.1` to `1.6.0` in this case)\\n- Are there updates to API versioning\\n  - No one in the call had an update\\n  - The [Discussion](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io/discussions/580) is untouched for a\\n    while\\n  - If this is an issue for anyone, please push that topic again"},{"id":"security-office-hour-2024-03-28","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/security-office-hour-2024-03-28","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-03-28-security-hour.md","title":"Security Office Hour 2024-03-28","description":"Security Office Hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-03-28T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"March 28, 2024","tags":[{"label":"security","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/security"},{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Rohan Krishnamurthy","title":"Consortia Security Team Member","url":"https://github.com/RoKrish14","key":"rohan_krishnamurthy"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"security-office-hour-2024-03-28","title":"Security Office Hour 2024-03-28","authors":["rohan_krishnamurthy"],"tags":["security","meeting-minutes"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-04-05","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-04-05"},"nextItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-03-22","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-03-22"}},"content":"## Security Office Hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### Announcements\\n\\n- SAST: \\n  -\\tVeracode - Offboarding: Last reminder, license terminates on 30-March-2024\\n  -\\tCodeQL - Onboarding- Workflow Setup: [TRG 8.01](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/release/trg-0/trg-8-01)\\n-\\tDAST security scans are not part of the next release 24.05 (Updates will follow through the QG Acceptance Criteria)\\n-\\tKICS, Trivy, GitGuardian and Dependabot tools will continue as it is."},{"id":"community-office-hour-2024-03-22","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-03-22","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-03-22-community-hour.md","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-03-22","description":"Office Hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-03-22T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"March 22, 2024","tags":[{"label":"community","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/community"},{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Sebastian Bezold","title":"Consortia System Team Member","url":"https://github.com/SebastianBezold","imageURL":"https://github.com/SebastianBezold.png","key":"sebastian_bezold"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"community-office-hour-2024-03-22","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-03-22","authors":["sebastian_bezold"],"tags":["community","meeting-minutes"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Security Office Hour 2024-03-28","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/security-office-hour-2024-03-28"},"nextItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-03-15","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-03-15"}},"content":"## Office Hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### System team\\n\\n- Investigating slow [website](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/) build times\\n  - Local builds (and CI) take increasingly more time (~13 min for static build with empty caches)\\n  - Heap size has to be increased on some machines\\n  - Potential source: Versioning of the KITS and keeping all the versions\\n\\n### Security team\\n\\n- Some teams are already migrating from Veracode to CodeQL. Great! Remember to also remove Veracode workflows in this case.\\n- PR to publish the Security TRG section will be raised\\n- Snyk will not be part of the Security TRGs and therefore not mandatory. Best practices and how-tos will still be provided in [sig-security](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/sig-security)\\n\\n### FOSS\\n\\n- [Getting started](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/oss/getting-started) guide improved\\n  - Does make it easier for new-joiners\\n  - Please link to this guide instead of duplicating information\\n  - If anything is missing, feel free to raise a PR or open an issue\\n\\n### Open planning / community\\n\\n- Tractus-X \\"Stammtisch Munich\\". [See Matrix post](https://matrix.to/#/!oXNwXGsvkbDUMiQhms:matrix.eclipse.org/$HQJu6RdRdobY62XxARHy7kRe0hIqX2fLw4A4l6x2exk?via=matrix.eclipse.org&via=matrix.org&via=dev-null.rocks)\\n- Old consortia office hour meeting will be cancelled. Open meeting link is now well known.\\n\\n### Discussions\\n\\n- People have been receiving on- and offboarding emails for the Tractus-X contributor team in GitHub\\n  - Unclear what triggered it\\n  - If you are committer, you don\'t need to also be part of the contributor group\\n  - In case you lost a necessary group assignment, please reach out"},{"id":"community-office-hour-2024-03-15","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-03-15","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-03-15-community-hour.md","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-03-15","description":"Office Hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-03-15T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"March 15, 2024","tags":[{"label":"community","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/community"},{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Fabian Gr\xfcn","title":"Consortia System Team Member","url":"https://github.com/fagru3n","imageURL":"https://github.com/fagru3n.png","key":"fabian_gruen"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"community-office-hour-2024-03-15","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-03-15","authors":["fabian_gruen"],"tags":["community","meeting-minutes"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-03-22","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-03-22"},"nextItem":{"title":"Security Office Hour 2024-03-14","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/security-office-hour-2024-03-14"}},"content":"## Office Hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### System team\\n\\n- Collaboration call for shared Ownership for Release 24.05 we will have a tandem mode for the upcoming release and searching for responsible through the mailing list\\n- Please review the current [Draft-TRG\xb4s](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/release/trg-0/)\\n- Archived repositories\\n  - [ssi-docu](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/ssi-docu)\\n  - [daps-helm-chart](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/daps-helm-chart)\\n  - [daps-registration-service](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/daps-registration-service)\\n  - [managed-identity-wallets-archived](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/managed-identity-wallets-archived)\\n  - [tractusx-quality-checks](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-quality-checks)\\n\\n\\n### Security team\\n\\n- Updates to Acceptance Criteria and that DAST (dynamic application security testing) scans will not be considered\\n- Friendly reminder to check out the [Security Office Hours](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/community/open-meetings#Security%20-%20Office%20Hour) and the [Security Office Hour Minutes](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/community/meeting-minutes/security-office-hour-2024-03-14)\\n\\n### FOSS\\n\\n- Congrats to [Rohan Krishnamurthy](https://github.com/RoKrish14) as a new [committer](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/automotive.tractusx/who) in our community.\\n- No open feedback or veto to archiving repositories that are out of purpose\\n\\n### Open planning / community\\n\\n- Current planning around the [2. Community Days Event](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/blog/community-days-05-2024), feel free to join\\n- Infosession Processes, Methods Tools for next release 24.08 will present on monday planning meeting\\n\\n### Open Discussions\\n\\n- Committer Matrix [Chatroom](https://chat.eclipse.org/#/room/#tractusx-committers:matrix.eclipse.org) i now available for us within the Eclipse Tractus-X.\\n- Release Day information to [release day insights (YouTube)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s_uo7vvfk6k)\\n  - Impressions for release process from Hanno, new standards and topics like SSI and further breaking changes\\n  - Working together with the community"},{"id":"security-office-hour-2024-03-14","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/security-office-hour-2024-03-14","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-03-14-security-hour.md","title":"Security Office Hour 2024-03-14","description":"Security Office Hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-03-14T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"March 14, 2024","tags":[{"label":"security","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/security"},{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Daniel Dilger","title":"Consortia Security Team Member","url":"https://github.com/mm73628486283/","key":"daniel_dilger"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"security-office-hour-2024-03-14","title":"Security Office Hour 2024-03-14","authors":["daniel_dilger"],"tags":["security","meeting-minutes"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-03-15","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-03-15"},"nextItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-03-08","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-03-08"}},"content":"## Security Office Hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### Announcements\\n\\n- SAST: CodeQL transition is ongoing, PRs to add corresponding workflows is ongoing. Veracode license will expire at the end of March, so everyone is encouraged to review their workflows to ensure a timely transition to CodeQL.\\n- DAST: Invicti license will expire at the end of August and already exceeded the website limit. There will be no DAST tool required for the next Quality Gate.\\n- Secret scanning\\n  - Gitguardian is currently set up, but Gitleaks is a potential successor.\\n  - Testing of Github secret scanning is still in progress.\\n- TRG 8.0 has been published as a draft, adjustments as PR are warmly welcome.\\n\\n### Open Discussions\\n\\n- none"},{"id":"community-office-hour-2024-03-08","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-03-08","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-03-08-community-hour.md","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-03-08","description":"Office Hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-03-08T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"March 8, 2024","tags":[{"label":"community","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/community"},{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Gabor Almadi","title":"Consortia System Team Member","url":"https://github.com/almadigabor","imageURL":"https://github.com/almadigabor.png","key":"almadi_gabor"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"community-office-hour-2024-03-08","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-03-08","authors":["almadi_gabor"],"tags":["community","meeting-minutes"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Security Office Hour 2024-03-14","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/security-office-hour-2024-03-14"},"nextItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-03-01","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-03-01"}},"content":"## Office Hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### System team\\n\\n- n/a\\n\\n### Security team\\n\\n- TRG [8.01](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/release/trg-0/trg-8-01),\\n  [8.03](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/release/trg-0/trg-8-03),\\n  [8.04](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/release/trg-0/trg-8-04),\\n  [8.05](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/release/trg-0/trg-8-05) \\n  first drafts are created, final versions will come soon\\n- Be patient with [CodeQL](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/sig-security/blob/main/security-tooling.md#codeql), could be tedious since it does provide a lot of findings\\n\\n### FOSS\\n\\n- New [commiter election](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/automotive.tractusx/elections/election-rohan-krishnamurthy-committer-eclipse-tractus-x) is open for Rohan Krishnamurthy. Please visit the page and make your vote!\\n\\n### Open planning / community\\n\\n- Role of the committer is being discussed, it will be presented in the next committer meeting.\\n  Basic role descriptions come from the Eclipse Foundation, but we want to specify in Tractus-X\\n  what else can be expected from a [contributor](https://www.eclipse.org/legal/ECA.php),\\n  [commiter](https://www.eclipse.org/membership/become_a_member/committer.php) and [project lead](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/#roles-pl).\\n- Association release process and Eclipse Tractus-X needs to be aligned as the first is managed by\\n  the association and the second should be driven by the community.\\n\\n### Open Discussions\\n\\n- We should align on how and where a migration documentation should be created for products.\\n  This would ensure that upon Breaking Changes the upgrade processes can run smoothly with\\n  a guide available for everyone. The guide could include property, configuration, API changes\\n  and everything else that would affect the upgrade process from and old version to the new.\\n  A draft will be available on a working model that could be implemented by the products soon.\\n  A TRG could include information on where these guide should be located and in which format."},{"id":"community-office-hour-2024-03-01","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-03-01","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-03-01-community-hour.md","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-03-01","description":"Tractus-X Office Hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-03-01T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"March 1, 2024","tags":[{"label":"community","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/community"},{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Harald Zierer","title":"Consortia System Team Member","url":"https://github.com/hzierer","key":"harald_zierer"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"community-office-hour-2024-03-01","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-03-01","authors":["harald_zierer"],"tags":["community","meeting-minutes"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-03-08","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-03-08"},"nextItem":{"title":"Security Office Hour 2024-02-29","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/security-office-hour-2024-02-29"}},"content":"## Tractus-X Office Hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### System team\\n\\n- Docusaurus: Please use \\"toc_min_heading_level\\" and \\"toc_max_heading_level\\" to [adjust your TOC](https://docusaurus.io/docs/api/plugins/@docusaurus/plugin-content-docs#markdown-front-matter)\\n- The community has to transparently describe our post-consortia release process\\n\\n### Security team\\n\\n- [Security office hour](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/community/open-meetings/#Security%20-%20Office%20Hour) kick off. Meeting minutes will be provided soon.\\n- TRG 8.0 [work in progress](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io/pull/681)\\n- Mind the support end of:\\n  - Veracode - SAST /SCA\\n  - Invicti - DAST\\n- The following FOSS tools will replace the previous ones:\\n  - CodeQL\\n  - OWASP ZAP - DAST\\n  - [Git secret scanning](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/sig-security/discussions/71)\\n\\n### FOSS\\n\\n-  Reminder: please make sure to attribute your \\"foreign\\" logos correctly\\n\\n### Open planning / community\\n\\n- second [Eclipse Tractus-X Community days](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/blog/community-days-05-2024/) will take place 16-17 May 2024:\\n  - please provide your \\"wishes\\" for topics\\n- Roadmap review finished 29th Feb 2024\\n- refinement phase will start the next days\\n- different open meetings can now be linked directly\\n\\n### Open Discussions\\n\\n- n/a"},{"id":"security-office-hour-2024-02-29","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/security-office-hour-2024-02-29","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-02-29-security-hour.md","title":"Security Office Hour 2024-02-29","description":"Security Office Hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-02-29T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"February 29, 2024","tags":[{"label":"security","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/security"},{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Daniel Dilger","title":"Consortia Security Team Member","url":"https://github.com/mm73628486283/","key":"daniel_dilger"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"security-office-hour-2024-02-29","title":"Security Office Hour 2024-02-29","authors":["daniel_dilger"],"tags":["security","meeting-minutes"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-03-01","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-03-01"},"nextItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-02-23","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-02-23"}},"content":"## Security Office Hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### Announcements\\n\\n- Security team approvals for most projects in scope of release 24.03 have been completed.\\n- Upcoming changes for release 24.05 will focus on FOSS security tools, including\\n  - switch from Veracode to CodeQL for SAST,\\n  - switch from Gitguardian to gitleaks for secrets scanning,\\n  - DAST will not be part of the upcoming TRG until further notice.\\n- DAST was removed from TRG due to issues with authenticated scans and SARIF report as scanning alerts in repository security section.\\n\\n### Open Discussions\\n\\n- An overarching issue for tracking the tool shifts was discussed, as it is necessary for proper planning by teams.\\n  - Teams need to estimate efforts to adjust Github workflows\\n- The PR for the new Security TRG was discussed, which includes a new requirement of remediation of findings with medium severity, but not for the 25.05 release.\\n  - Concerns were raised about the need for additional planned team resources for triaging these issues, and it was suggested that the TRG should be finalized and teams made aware.\\n- What are best-practices for scheduling security tools Action workflows, with every PR or another frequency?\\n  - The TRG claims at least once, this is mandatory baseline for all.\\n  - Best practice is more frequently, recommendations differ per tool (e.g. secret scanning for every PR, dependency scan on a weekly basis).\\n  - The trigger will be on push + on pull + scheduled - frequency depends on repositories activity, so the team has to decide.\\n  - Best practice recommendations will be published in the sig-security repository."},{"id":"community-office-hour-2024-02-23","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-02-23","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-02-23-community-hour.md","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-02-23","description":"Office Hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-02-23T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"February 23, 2024","tags":[{"label":"community","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/community"},{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Sebastian Bezold","title":"Consortia System Team Member","url":"https://github.com/SebastianBezold","imageURL":"https://github.com/SebastianBezold.png","key":"sebastian_bezold"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"community-office-hour-2024-02-23","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-02-23","authors":["sebastian_bezold"],"tags":["community","meeting-minutes"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Security Office Hour 2024-02-29","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/security-office-hour-2024-02-29"},"nextItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-02-16","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-02-16"}},"content":"## Office Hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### System team\\n\\n- Quality Gate Reviews in progress. Please keep an eye on your issues\\n\\n### Security team\\n\\n- New \\"Read only filesystem\\" TRG will be introduced to the \\"Container\\" category\\n- New \\"Dependabot\\" TRG will be worked on via [PR #659](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io/pull/659) and moved to the security section afterwards\\n- With Release `24.05`, Veracode will no longer be part of the QGate. We move to CodeQL. Do necessary migration early on, if possible\\n\\n### FOSS\\n\\n- Ongoing discussion on usage of the Catena-X logo in Tractus-X context.\\n- Recommendation: Watch the [Eclipse Foundation Office Hour recording](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/calendar/#office-hours) about IP issue handling: \\n\\n### Open planning / community\\n\\n- n/a\\n\\n### Open Discussions\\n\\n- Automated email about upgrades to Kubernetes and PostgreSQL version: What does it mean?\\n  - See it as a discussion starter and reminder\\n  - Potentially, the committer group can use that as a trigger for alignment on these two crucial topics\\n- Is there a publicly available test installation of a dataspace build from Tractus-X components\\n  - No. Tractus-X is not maintaining any persistent installations\\n  - There are tutorials available on how to set this up yourself\\n  - [MXD tutorial](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tutorial-resources)\\n  - [E2E adopter journey](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/tutorials/e2e)\\n- Is there a possibility to enable contributors ot edit other contributors issue descriptions\\n  - No. This is only possible with write permissions\\n  - Write permissions are only granted to the committer role"},{"id":"community-office-hour-2024-02-16","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-02-16","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-02-16-community-hour.md","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-02-16","description":"Office Hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-02-16T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"February 16, 2024","tags":[{"label":"community","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/community"},{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Sebastian Bezold","title":"Consortia System Team Member","url":"https://github.com/SebastianBezold","imageURL":"https://github.com/SebastianBezold.png","key":"sebastian_bezold"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"community-office-hour-2024-02-16","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-02-16","authors":["sebastian_bezold"],"tags":["community","meeting-minutes"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-02-23","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-02-23"},"nextItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-02-09","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-02-09"}},"content":"## Office Hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### System team\\n\\n- Still looking for volunteers to work on QG reviews together with the system team\\n  - Goal is to spread knowledge on how TRGs are checked\\n  - Especially interesting for committers, that already know they will stay post consortia\\n- Preparing an open description on our release process. Feel free to comment any suggestion or important topics, you think should be covered [on this draft](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/sig-release/pull/519)\\n- Markdown linting will again be enabled for KITs. Findings will be collected as issue per KIT\\n- OpenAPI plugin for docusaurus will be removed\\n  - OpenAPI definitions will be pushed to SwaggerHub. User credentials available as org secrets\\n  - Ongoing discussions: Some definitions might be published through standard and therefore out of eclipse-tractusx\\n\\n### Security team\\n\\n- New TRG suggestion PR: [eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io#681](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io/pull/681)\\n- Reminder: please focus on `eclipse-tractusx` instead of `catenax-ng`\\n- Please reach out to the security team, as soon as the security scans for QG checks are ready for QG review\\n\\n### FOSS\\n\\n- Election for Jim Marino open: https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/automotive.tractusx/elections/election-james-marino-committer-eclipse-tractus-x\\n\\n### Open planning / community\\n\\n- New open meeting links available in the [community section](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/community/open-meetings)"},{"id":"community-office-hour-2024-02-09","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-02-09","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-02-09-community-hour.md","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-02-09","description":"office hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-02-09T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"February 9, 2024","tags":[{"label":"community","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/community"},{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Tomasz Barwicki","title":"Consortia System Team Member","url":"https://github.com/tomaszbarwicki","key":"tomasz_barwicki"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"community-office-hour-2024-02-09","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-02-09","authors":["tomasz_barwicki"],"tags":["community","meeting-minutes"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-02-16","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-02-16"},"nextItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-02-02","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-02-02"}},"content":"## office hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### System team\\n\\n- Kube Prometheus Stack upgraded to latest release [56.6.2](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/releases/tag/kube-prometheus-stack-56.6.2).\\n- Committer Election for [Tuncay Tunc](https://github.com/tuncaytunc-zf) on Eclipse Tractus-X has started.\\n- The Committer Election for [F\xe1bio Mota](https://github.com/fabiodmota) on project Eclipse Tractus-X concluded successfully.\\n- Committer volunteers wanted to participate/shadow next Quality Gate process.\\n\\n### Security team\\n\\n- New TRG/s from security team was presented requesting for feedback [Security TRG 8.0](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io/pull/657).\\n- Suggested to contact security team directly for any support required to use, complete Invicti related issues/tasks.\\n- Update for static application security testing/source code scanning, ongoing transition from Veracode to CodeQL. Reach out to security team for any assistance.\\n- Reminder on available onboarding process to [Snyk](https://snyk.io/).\\n- There will be separate security office hours meeting, biweekly Thursdays 8:30 - 9:30.\\n\\n### FOSS\\n\\n- N/A\\n\\n### Open planning / community\\n\\n- Open meetings [PR](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io/pull/658).\\n\\n### Open discussion\\n\\n- Question related to [TRG 1.04 Diagrams as code](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/release/trg-1/trg-1-4), if there a need/requirement to convert already existing .png diagrams. It is recommended to use described in the TRG toolset to keep good level of maintainability of the diagrams, not a hard requirement though in case there is lack of source."},{"id":"community-office-hour-2024-02-02","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-02-02","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-02-02-community-hour.md","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-02-02","description":"office hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-02-02T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"February 2, 2024","tags":[{"label":"community","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/community"},{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Fabian Gr\xfcn","title":"Consortia System Team Member","url":"https://github.com/fagru3n","imageURL":"https://github.com/fagru3n.png","key":"fabian_gruen"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"community-office-hour-2024-02-02","title":"Community Office Hour 2024-02-02","authors":["fabian_gruen"],"tags":["community","meeting-minutes"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-02-09","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-02-09"},"nextItem":{"title":"Community Office hour 2024-01-26","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-01-26"}},"content":"## office hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### System team\\n\\n- Please be aware of our Markdown lint problem in the eclipse-tractusx.github.io that currently only the [`/docs`](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io/blob/main/package.json#L15) folder is checked and should be extended to more markdown file directories \\n- TRG Update information about [TRG 3-1](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io/pull/618) that was superseded by [TRG 5-09](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/release/trg-5/trg-5-09)\\n- Upcoming Office Hours meeting minutes will be reported in the community section of our webpage and you can find [here](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/community/meeting-minutes)\\n\\n### Security team\\n\\n- New [security issue templates](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/sig-security/issues/new/choose) for sig-security repository\\n- Security assessments [template](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/sig-security/issues/new?assignees=szymonkowalczykzf&labels=security%2C+assessment&projects=&template=security-assessment-request.md&title=%5BSecurity+Assessment%5D+SUBJECT_HERE) and [contact](https://github.com/szymonkowalczykzf)\\n- Access to security tools [template](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/sig-security/issues/new?assignees=RoKrish14&labels=security%2C+tooling&projects=&template=security-tooling-support-request.md&title=%5BSecurity+Tooling%5D+YOUR_ISSUE_TITLE_HERE) like Snyk and other tools\\n- [Snyk](https://snyk.io/) tool will be available after consortia time\\n\\n\\n### FOSS\\n\\n- Please take your vote on a new [Committer Election](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/automotive.tractusx/elections/election-f%C3%A1bio-mota-committer-eclipse-tractus-x) for [F\xe1bio Mota](https://github.com/fabiodmota)\\n- Please participate in [Eclipse Committer Office Hour Meetings](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/calendar/) and join the discussion about changes to the Eclipse IP Policy and Due Diligence Process\\n\\n### Open planning / community\\n\\n- Open [Meetings Links](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/community/open-meetings) with ics invitation files are available for the community\\n\\n### Open discussion\\n\\n- No open discussion"},{"id":"community-office-hour-2024-01-26","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-01-26","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-01-26-community-hour.md","title":"Community Office hour 2024-01-26","description":"office hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-01-26T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"January 26, 2024","tags":[{"label":"community","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/community"},{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Gabor Almadi","title":"Consortia System Team Member","url":"https://github.com/almadigabor","imageURL":"https://github.com/almadigabor.png","key":"almadi_gabor"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"community-office-hour-2024-01-26","title":"Community Office hour 2024-01-26","authors":["almadi_gabor"],"tags":["community","meeting-minutes"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-02-02","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-02-02"},"nextItem":{"title":"Community Office hour 2024-01-19","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-01-19"}},"content":"## office hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### System team\\n\\n- Whenever a new room is created in the Eclipse Matrix chat, please announce it in the main [Tractux-X](https://matrix.to/#/#tractusx:matrix.eclipse.org) room,\\n  office hour and mailing list so everybody can learn about it and join.\\n\\n### Security team\\n\\n- New issue templates are available for the following topics:\\n  - [OSS Tool membership request](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/sig-security/issues/new?assignees=SSIRKC&labels=security%2C+tool&projects=&template=tractus-x-oss-tool-membership-request.md&title=Requesting+access+to+%22%5BTOOL+NAME%5D+YOUR_REPOSITORY%22)\\n  - [Ask the community](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/sig-security/discussions/categories/q-a) for security help via Discussions\\n  - Keep an eye out on the [Security Announcements](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/sig-security/discussions/categories/announcements) where news \\n    about security topics are announces regularly\\n- Get in touch with the Security Team for testing with [Snyk](https://snyk.io/)\\n\\n### FOSS\\n\\n- There was a new election for a project lead role for [Stephan Bauer](https://github.com/stephanbcbauer)\\n- The Eclipse Project Handbook changed the section about handling copyright headers. A year range is not longer necessary, only the year when\\n  the file was created so there is no need to keep an eye on updating the headers. It is still allowed to put year range (creation date and\\n  last modification year) in the header but they have to be separated with comma character.\\n- Please sign the Eclipse Contributor Agreement when trying to contribute to the webpage. Without that it is not possible to merge commits\\n  to the main branch.\\n- \u2757 Please don\'t put any Catena-X content or resource on the website without permission.\\n\\n### Open planning / community\\n\\n- New [Open Meetings Links](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/community/open-meetings) are listed directly on our webpage to participate and separate calendar files can be downloaded from there.\\n- Office hours will probably start a few minutes later so the people don\'t have to wait until everyone gets there.\\n- Commiters and Contributors Meeting could be a new form of communication where the committers are more involved getting some pressure off the System Team.\\n- Newjoiner rounds for basic introductions would be held every 2 weeks in a separate session.\\n\\n### Open discussion\\n\\n- [Umbrella chart](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/e2e-testing):\\n  - Currently there is a temporary solution for the Managed Identity Wallet by SAP until the [open source version](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/managed-identity-wallet) is fixed. This is a COTS\\n    application and it raises questions like how it can be integrated into an open source software stack like the umbrella chart. It is not confirmed yet\\n    whether the version from SAP can be used without a license. Currently all components can run without MIW but data exchange functionality won\'t work.\\n- Public API versioning is still an open topic where no decision has been made to create a TRG or guide the Tractus-X community to follow\\n  one versioning strategy.\\n- An alternative for MS Teams should be found as it is hard to manage for an open community (e.g. Discord)."},{"id":"community-office-hour-2024-01-19","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-01-19","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-01-19-community-hour.md","title":"Community Office hour 2024-01-19","description":"office hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-01-19T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"January 19, 2024","tags":[{"label":"community","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/community"},{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Harald Zierer","title":"Consortia System Team Member","url":"https://github.com/hzierer","key":"harald_zierer"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"community-office-hour-2024-01-19","title":"Community Office hour 2024-01-19","authors":["harald_zierer"],"tags":["community","meeting-minutes"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Community Office hour 2024-01-26","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-01-26"},"nextItem":{"title":"New Open Meeting blog","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/new-open-meeting-blog"}},"content":"## office hour meeting minutes\\n\\n### System team\\n- No update\\n\\n### Security team\\n- Many open cases (>10) from GitGuardian, please check you inboxes (or spam folders)\\n- A bug bounty program is in the making\\n\\n### FOSS\\n- Happy new year: Don\'t forget to update the year in your copyright headers\\n  - some corner cases will be clarified until next office hour\\n- There is a new draft [TRG 2.06](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/release/trg-0/trg-2-6) regarding dependabot usage\\n  - please update your `DEPENDENCIES` file(s) to ensure that the suggested changes are license compliant\\n\\n### Open planning / community\\n- Last open planning session went very well\\n- There\'s a new [open meetings](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/community/open-meetings) page\\n\\n### Open discussion\\n- discussion regarding the \\"Notice for docker image\\" to be moved into a separate file.\\n  - [TRG 4.06](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/release/trg-4/trg-4-06) will be updated to mandate a dedicated file.\\n  - Please keep in mind to update your docker build workflow to include the new file instead of the `README.md`. See [example of TRG 4.05](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io/blob/204cfddb5531fd6430001c0baf0ca12a97bb9718/docs/release/trg-4/trg-4-05.md?plain=1#L99-L100) for reference.\\n- discussion on where to discuss about new / changes to existing TRGs: TRG draft section, within the PR or GitHub discussions\\n  - Sebastian is going to create a PR so everybody can vote on it\\n- As multiple people struggle with our current docusaurus[^1] setup, there will be a training/hands-on session soon. It\'s will be announced on the mailing list.\\n- Content updates for KITs: Please ensure that no copyrighted content (incl. Catena-X) is contributed to Tractus-X.\\n- False-positive issues opened by Trivy - please raise a \\"tooling support\\" issue in the [sig-security](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/sig-security) repository\\n\\n[^1]: [docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/docs): the generator for the pages you are reading right now"},{"id":"new-open-meeting-blog","metadata":{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/new-open-meeting-blog","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2023-12-06-new-open-meeting-blog.md","title":"New Open Meeting blog","description":"New home for open meeting minutes","date":"2023-12-06T00:00:00.000Z","formattedDate":"December 6, 2023","tags":[{"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Sebastian Bezold","title":"Consortia System Team Member","url":"https://github.com/SebastianBezold","imageURL":"https://github.com/SebastianBezold.png","key":"sebastian_bezold"}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"new-open-meeting-blog","title":"New Open Meeting blog","authors":["sebastian_bezold"],"tags":["meeting-minutes"]},"prevItem":{"title":"Community Office hour 2024-01-19","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-01-19"}},"content":"## New home for open meeting minutes\\n\\nWe are happy to announce a new blog, that will host meeting minutes of all our open meetings in the future.\\n\\nLooking for past blog entries? You can find previous posts on this [consortia site](https://catenax-ng.github.io/blog/) or by visiting this [consortia repo](https://github.com/catenax-ng/catenax-ng.github.io/tree/main/blog)."}]}')}}]);