"use strict";(self.webpackChunkeclipse_tractusx_github_io=self.webpackChunkeclipse_tractusx_github_io||[]).push([[35508],{26537:(e,n,i)=>{i.r(n),i.d(n,{assets:()=>u,contentTitle:()=>c,default:()=>m,frontMatter:()=>o,metadata:()=>t,toc:()=>l});var t=i(86023),s=i(74848),r=i(28453);const o={slug:"security-office-hour-2024-02-29",title:"Security Office Hour 2024-02-29",authors:["daniel_dilger"],tags:["security","meeting-minutes"]},c=void 0,u={authorsImageUrls:[void 0]},l=[{value:"Security Office Hour meeting minutes",id:"security-office-hour-meeting-minutes",level:2},{value:"Announcements",id:"announcements",level:3},{value:"Open Discussions",id:"open-discussions",level:3}];function a(e){const n={h2:"h2",h3:"h3",li:"li",ul:"ul",...(0,r.R)(),...e.components};return(0,s.jsxs)(s.Fragment,{children:[(0,s.jsx)(n.h2,{id:"security-office-hour-meeting-minutes",children:"Security Office Hour meeting minutes"}),"\n",(0,s.jsx)(n.h3,{id:"announcements",children:"Announcements"}),"\n",(0,s.jsxs)(n.ul,{children:["\n",(0,s.jsx)(n.li,{children:"Security team approvals for most projects in scope of release 24.03 have been completed."}),"\n",(0,s.jsxs)(n.li,{children:["Upcoming changes for release 24.05 will focus on FOSS security tools, including","\n",(0,s.jsxs)(n.ul,{children:["\n",(0,s.jsx)(n.li,{children:"switch from Veracode to CodeQL for SAST,"}),"\n",(0,s.jsx)(n.li,{children:"switch from Gitguardian to gitleaks for secrets scanning,"}),"\n",(0,s.jsx)(n.li,{children:"DAST will not be part of the upcoming TRG until further notice."}),"\n"]}),"\n"]}),"\n",(0,s.jsx)(n.li,{children:"DAST was removed from TRG due to issues with authenticated scans and SARIF report as scanning alerts in repository security section."}),"\n"]}),"\n",(0,s.jsx)(n.h3,{id:"open-discussions",children:"Open Discussions"}),"\n",(0,s.jsxs)(n.ul,{children:["\n",(0,s.jsxs)(n.li,{children:["An overarching issue for tracking the tool shifts was discussed, as it is necessary for proper planning by teams.","\n",(0,s.jsxs)(n.ul,{children:["\n",(0,s.jsx)(n.li,{children:"Teams need to estimate efforts to adjust Github workflows"}),"\n"]}),"\n"]}),"\n",(0,s.jsxs)(n.li,{children:["The PR for the new Security TRG was discussed, which includes a new requirement of remediation of findings with medium severity, but not for the 25.05 release.","\n",(0,s.jsxs)(n.ul,{children:["\n",(0,s.jsx)(n.li,{children:"Concerns were raised about the need for additional planned team resources for triaging these issues, and it was suggested that the TRG should be finalized and teams made aware."}),"\n"]}),"\n"]}),"\n",(0,s.jsxs)(n.li,{children:["What are best-practices for scheduling security tools Action workflows, with every PR or another frequency?","\n",(0,s.jsxs)(n.ul,{children:["\n",(0,s.jsx)(n.li,{children:"The TRG claims at least once, this is mandatory baseline for all."}),"\n",(0,s.jsx)(n.li,{children:"Best practice is more frequently, recommendations differ per tool (e.g. secret scanning for every PR, dependency scan on a weekly basis)."}),"\n",(0,s.jsx)(n.li,{children:"The trigger will be on push + on pull + scheduled - frequency depends on repositories activity, so the team has to decide."}),"\n",(0,s.jsx)(n.li,{children:"Best practice recommendations will be published in the sig-security repository."}),"\n"]}),"\n"]}),"\n"]})]})}function m(e={}){const{wrapper:n}={...(0,r.R)(),...e.components};return n?(0,s.jsx)(n,{...e,children:(0,s.jsx)(a,{...e})}):a(e)}},28453:(e,n,i)=>{i.d(n,{R:()=>o,x:()=>c});var t=i(96540);const s={},r=t.createContext(s);function o(e){const n=t.useContext(r);return t.useMemo((function(){return"function"==typeof e?e(n):{...n,...e}}),[n,e])}function c(e){let n;return n=e.disableParentContext?"function"==typeof e.components?e.components(s):e.components||s:o(e.components),t.createElement(r.Provider,{value:n},e.children)}},86023:e=>{e.exports=JSON.parse('{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/security-office-hour-2024-02-29","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-02-29-security-hour.md","title":"Security Office Hour 2024-02-29","description":"Security Office Hour meeting minutes","date":"2024-02-29T00:00:00.000Z","tags":[{"inline":true,"label":"security","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/security"},{"inline":true,"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Daniel Dilger","title":"Consortia Security Team Member","url":"https://github.com/mm73628486283/","key":"daniel_dilger","page":null}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"security-office-hour-2024-02-29","title":"Security Office Hour 2024-02-29","authors":["daniel_dilger"],"tags":["security","meeting-minutes"]},"unlisted":false,"prevItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-03-01","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-03-01"},"nextItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-02-23","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-02-23"}}')}}]);