"use strict";(self.webpackChunkeclipse_tractusx_github_io=self.webpackChunkeclipse_tractusx_github_io||[]).push([["89230"],{906152:function(e,t,i){i.r(t),i.d(t,{assets:()=>a,contentTitle:()=>o,default:()=>u,frontMatter:()=>r,metadata:()=>n,toc:()=>c});var n=i(434604),l=i(474848),s=i(884429);let r={slug:"committer-meeting-12-04-2024",title:"Commiter Meeting 12.04.2024",authors:["stephan_bauer"],tags:["meeting-minutes","community","committer-meeting"]},o,a={authorsImageUrls:[void 0]},c=[{value:"Committer meeting - meeting minutes",id:"committer-meeting---meeting-minutes",level:2},{value:"Open Planning Participation of committers",id:"open-planning-participation-of-committers",level:3},{value:"Label structure",id:"label-structure",level:3},{value:"New needed",id:"new-needed",level:4},{value:"Changes needed",id:"changes-needed",level:4},{value:"Delete (probably we need to discuss this once since a deletion has impacts\u2026)",id:"delete-probably-we-need-to-discuss-this-once-since-a-deletion-has-impacts",level:4},{value:"Additionally I like to suggest a clear color coding",id:"additionally-i-like-to-suggest-a-clear-color-coding",level:4},{value:"Clean Board",id:"clean-board",level:3},{value:"Views an project board",id:"views-an-project-board",level:3},{value:"Future workingmodel",id:"future-workingmodel",level:3},{value:"Custom Attribute",id:"custom-attribute",level:3},{value:"Featurequality",id:"featurequality",level:3}];function d(e){let t={a:"a",code:"code",h2:"h2",h3:"h3",h4:"h4",li:"li",p:"p",strong:"strong",ul:"ul",...(0,s.R)(),...e.components};return(0,l.jsxs)(l.Fragment,{children:[(0,l.jsx)(t.h2,{id:"committer-meeting---meeting-minutes",children:"Committer meeting - meeting minutes"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.h3,{id:"open-planning-participation-of-committers",children:"Open Planning Participation of committers"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.p,{children:"The open planning is one of the most important meetings. I think 14 (of 41) committers were present, but only two used their voice ;) what about the others?"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.p,{children:"=> Maybe we should talk more beforehand, about the importance of the meeting. Responsibilities and expectations of attendance."}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.h3,{id:"label-structure",children:"Label structure"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.p,{children:"The labels on the features are very important for dependencies and filtering. Yes we have a lot, but we need more ;) but on the other hand we can also delete some ;)"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.p,{children:(0,l.jsx)(t.strong,{children:"Suggestions:"})}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.h4,{id:"new-needed",children:"New needed"}),"\n",(0,l.jsxs)(t.ul,{children:["\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"ssi"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"data-sovereignty"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"policy-hub"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"policy-registry"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"issuer-component"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"authority-registry"}),"\n"]}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.p,{children:"=> discussed -> create the labels"}),"\n",(0,l.jsxs)(t.ul,{children:["\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"open-discussions (color: red)"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"Prep-P14 -> maybe Prep-R2412 -> do we need the specific prep label?"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"Prep-P15"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"Standards (marks tickets which have impact on standards)"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"Breaking Change (marks breaking change tickets)"}),"\n"]}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.h4,{id:"changes-needed",children:"Changes needed"}),"\n",(0,l.jsxs)(t.ul,{children:["\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"miw => rename to identity-wallet"}),"\n"]}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.h4,{id:"delete-probably-we-need-to-discuss-this-once-since-a-deletion-has-impacts",children:"Delete (probably we need to discuss this once since a deletion has impacts\u2026)"}),"\n",(0,l.jsxs)(t.ul,{children:["\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"kit (reason: each kit has an own label already)"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"foss"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"go"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"PI12 (ideally we just inactive it to not lose it on the old tickets)"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"Prep-P11 (ideally we just inactive it to not lose it on the old tickets)"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"Prep-P12 (ideally we just inactive it to not lose it on the old tickets)"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"Project management"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"Test results"}),"\n"]}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.h4,{id:"additionally-i-like-to-suggest-a-clear-color-coding",children:"Additionally I like to suggest a clear color coding"}),"\n",(0,l.jsxs)(t.ul,{children:["\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"All Product labels - ocean blue"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"All Prep-Pxx label \u2013 grey"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"All highlight labels \u2013 red"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"All UseCase labels \u2013 green -> can we delete this?"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"All Expert group labels - yellow"}),"\n"]}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.p,{children:"=> HTML color code is used"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.h3,{id:"clean-board",children:"Clean Board"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.p,{children:"My feeling is, we will have round about 60 features for 24.08 -> all good. Happy about it. But on the board itself we have more than 200. I understand its good to have some features in inbox/backlog... but i think the gap is to big ... and i think a lot of them could be deleted ;("}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.p,{children:"=> discussed and decided: Friendly reminder -> after a specific amount ot time the issues are deleted automatically"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.h3,{id:"views-an-project-board",children:"Views an project board"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.p,{children:"The views (tabs) should be cleaned up) which views are still needed?"}),"\n",(0,l.jsxs)(t.ul,{children:["\n",(0,l.jsxs)(t.li,{children:["Feature view (issuetype ",(0,l.jsx)(t.code,{children:"feature"}),") -> for Expert Groups / Committees / Developer"]}),"\n",(0,l.jsxs)(t.li,{children:["QGate View (issuetype ",(0,l.jsx)(t.code,{children:"realease_ac"}),")"]}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"???"}),"\n"]}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.h3,{id:"future-workingmodel",children:"Future workingmodel"}),"\n",(0,l.jsxs)(t.p,{children:["Instead of miro we could work with GitHub Project as agenda/issuetracking. e.g. ",(0,l.jsx)(t.a,{href:"https://github.com/orgs/eclipse-tractusx/projects/61",children:"example board"})]}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.p,{children:"=> lets try it"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.h3,{id:"custom-attribute",children:"Custom Attribute"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.p,{children:"Since we work together e.V/Open Source it would be beneficial if we could map the features to the related expert (groups) therefore i would like to discuss a custom attribute, which holds the related committee/expertgroup (dedicated list) -> This would help to filter and also get a better feeling"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.p,{children:"=> prepare a poc -> Tom , Stephan"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.h3,{id:"featurequality",children:"Featurequality"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.p,{children:"Since sometimes the quality (how is a feature described, did you clarify your dependencies, did you talk to your committer, is the time allocated) i would like to extend the feature template to guide a little bit more. For example a checklist like:"}),"\n",(0,l.jsxs)(t.ul,{children:["\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"[ ] i have talked to dependent components"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"[ ] i have talked to my committers"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"[ ] i will contribute on this features"}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.li,{children:"..."}),"\n"]}),"\n",(0,l.jsx)(t.p,{children:"-> mention the release process via link in the template, keep the template simple\n-> link the contribution guidelines"})]})}function u(e={}){let{wrapper:t}={...(0,s.R)(),...e.components};return t?(0,l.jsx)(t,{...e,children:(0,l.jsx)(d,{...e})}):d(e)}},884429:function(e,t,i){i.d(t,{R:()=>r,x:()=>o});var n=i(296540);let l={},s=n.createContext(l);function r(e){let t=n.useContext(s);return n.useMemo(function(){return"function"==typeof e?e(t):{...t,...e}},[t,e])}function o(e){let t;return t=e.disableParentContext?"function"==typeof e.components?e.components(l):e.components||l:r(e.components),n.createElement(s.Provider,{value:t},e.children)}},434604:function(e){e.exports=JSON.parse('{"permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/committer-meeting-12-04-2024","source":"@site/blog-meeting-minutes/2024-04-12-committer-meeting.md","title":"Commiter Meeting 12.04.2024","description":"Committer meeting - meeting minutes","date":"2024-04-12T00:00:00.000Z","tags":[{"inline":true,"label":"meeting-minutes","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/meeting-minutes"},{"inline":true,"label":"community","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/community"},{"inline":true,"label":"committer-meeting","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/tags/committer-meeting"}],"hasTruncateMarker":false,"authors":[{"name":"Stephan Bauer","title":"Eclipse Tractus-X Project Lead","url":"https://github.com/stephanbcbauer","email":"stephan.bauer@catena-x.net","imageURL":"https://github.com/stephanbcbauer.png","key":"stephan_bauer","page":null}],"frontMatter":{"slug":"committer-meeting-12-04-2024","title":"Commiter Meeting 12.04.2024","authors":["stephan_bauer"],"tags":["meeting-minutes","community","committer-meeting"]},"unlisted":false,"prevItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-04-19","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-04-19"},"nextItem":{"title":"Community Office Hour 2024-04-12","permalink":"/community/meeting-minutes/community-office-hour-2024-04-12"}}')}}]);