---
title: TRG 4.02 - Base images
---

| Status | Created     | Post-History                                                                    |
|--------|-------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Active | 06-Dec-2023 | Add adventages of Dockerhub images
| Draft  | 04-May-2023 | Remove notice in favor of dedicated TRG; Add mandatory base image for frontends |
| Active | 25-Nov-2022 | Initial release                                                                 |

## Why

As part of our legal due diligence, we need to provide the best information possible about our distributed (published) Docker images.
Similar to our 3rd-party dependency scans and the `DEPENDENCIES` file, Docker images also have to be scanned and the results published.
We want to help you to keep a high standard process, by defining guidelines, described in this TRG.

## Description

As Eclipse Tractus-X project, we don't have automated processes for publishing container scan results (yet). This is why we use information that is already gathered for us.
DockerHub is running container scans for all [official images](https://docs.docker.com/trusted-content/official-images/)
and is publishing the scans result in the [docker-library/repo-info repository](https://github.com/docker-library/repo-info).

Utilizing images from DockerHub is advantageous due to its role as a trusted repository of curated and verified open source containers.
DockerHub provides a centralized platform where developers can access a wide range of pre built containers which adhere to established best practices and meet certain standards of quality, security, and reliability, giving developers confidence in the integrity of the containers they deploy. By incorporating prepared images, teams can foster consistency across environments, reduce the likelihood of vulnerabilities, and accelerate the overall software delivery pipeline rather than managing complex container configurations from scratch.

We are leveraging this information by restricting the base images we use for our published container images to a minimal set.
Aligning on specific base images also gives us the opportunity to provide you with templates for the legal notice,
like described in [TRG 4.06 -  Notice for docker images](./trg-4-06.md)

The following table lists container base images, that are already agreed on.

| Language / Runtime / OS   | Container base image                                                       | Notes                                                    |
|---------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| Java / Kotlin / JVM based | [Eclipse Temurin](https://hub.docker.com/_/eclipse-temurin)                | prefer JRE over JDK and alpine tags for your JRE version |
| JS frontends              | [nginx-unprivileged](https://hub.docker.com/r/nginxinc/nginx-unprivileged) | prefer :stable-alpine tag                                |
| .NET runtime              | [.NET runtime](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-dotnet-runtime)          | prefer :alpine tag                                       |
| ASP.NET runtime           | [ASP.NET core runtime](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-dotnet-aspnet)   | prefer :alpine tag                                       |
| Linux                     | [Alpine Linux](https://hub.docker.com/_/alpine)                            |

If the language or runtime environment of your product is not listed above, feel free to [start a discussion](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/sig-infra/discussions)
and propose your preferred container images as base image.

:::info
As stated in the description above, base image usage is particularly aligned for container images, that we distribute by publishing them on DockerHub.
In case you are using Docker images for build or testing purposes (for example pandoc or cypress, etc.) and you do not publish the images,
you can use other publicly available image, as long as the tools are open source license compliant.

For automated TRG checks, you can skip base image checks on Dockerfiles by declaring it in the `.tractusx` metadata files.
Details can be found in the [metadata file documentation](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-quality-checks/blob/main/docs/metadata_file.md)
:::
