---
title: TRG 5.01 - Helm Chart requirements
sidebar_position: 1
---

| Status | Created     | Post-History                |
| ------ | ----------- | --------------------------- |
| Update | 29-Feb-2024 | restructuring and rewording |
| Active | 10-Nov-2022 | Initial release             |

## Why

Eclipse Tractus-X consists of many independent and dependent components and products. While previously software was installed through installers like `setup.exe` or linux packages, in the cloud native world with kubernetes, the alignment options on how to setup is limited.

One versatile and well known industry standard are **helm charts**.

## Description

All Eclipse Tractus-X components **must** be installable via Helm and meet following requirements. The product's Helm
chart **has to meet** all of these criteria!

- Helm chart **must be released**.
- Appropriate versioning strategy must be used for `version` and `appVersion` in the `Chart.yaml` file
- The released Helm chart **must not** contain any environment specific `values-xyz.yaml` files
- Helm chart **must be** configurable via the `values.yaml` file by using proper default values/placeholders. See more details [here](../trg-5/trg-5-05).
- Default values file must not contain references to any secret engine services (e.g.: Hashicorp Vault)
- Helm chart **must be deployable to any environment without overwriting default values** with a simple `helm install`
  command
- If there is an **Ingress** resource present, it can be turned off, and it is disabled by default
- Helm Chart dependencies have to be declared in the `Chart.yaml` file

### Released Helm Charts

Eclipse Tractus-X components can only be used and bundled with other components of Tractus-X if there is a version of the
component with reliable content. This can only be achieved by creating a release of your Helm chart.

We recommend to use GitHub [Chart Releaser Action](https://github.com/helm/chart-releaser-action).

### Versioning

Versioning is essential when it comes to releasing Helm charts. In an ideal world your chart version (defined
in `version` inside `Chart.yaml`) matches the application version (defined in `appVersion` inside `Chart.yaml`) which
the Helm chart will deploy. This makes it for users easier to get an idea what will be installed in which version.
Please refer also to [TRG 5.03 - Version strategy](trg-5-03.md).

To achieve a proper versioning of your Helm chart keep in mind, that it **shall not** contain version information that could
change outside the Helm chart, e.g. container image tags (-> don't use container image tag *latest*).

### The `values.yaml` File

The `values.yaml` file is essential for Helm charts. The file **must** contain all values the chart is expecting and
there **must** be no other values files except of `values.yaml` file. Released Helm charts **must** contain
only `values.yaml` file.
More rules and best practices for the file can be found [here](../trg-5/trg-5-05).

### Dependencies

If a Helm chart has dependencies to other Helm charts, e.g. PostgreSQL, these dependencies **must** be specified in
the `Chart.yaml` file. Do not use outdated `requirements.yaml`.
