---
title: TRG 1.01 - README.md
---

| Status | Created      | Post-History                             |
|--------|--------------|------------------------------------------|
| Update | 06-Dec-2023  | add detailed information for README file |
| Active | 07-Mar-2023  |                                          |
| Draft  | 13-Sept-2022 |                                          |

## Why

A good `README.md` file is the starting point for everyone opening your repository. It should help them find all critical information in an easy way.
A well-maintained `README.md` shows the high level of professionalism of the project. It demonstrates that the developers care about user experience and want to make it easy for others to understand and use their work.

## Description

Each repository **must** contain a `README.md` file which **shall** cover following topics:

- Basic documentation of the repository, its content and its structure
- Installation instructions
  - If required necessary step(s) to finish the installation
- Usage examples and intended use of your product
- License information
- Troubleshooting and FAQs to help users solve common problems
- Reference your Contribution guideline in the `CONTRIBUTING.md` file
- Contact information to help users getting in touch with you
- Badges to show the status of your project (e.g. build status, code coverage, [etc](https://github.com/badges/shields/blob/master/README.md).)

Best practices:

- If installation instructions for your product are too complex being part of `README.md` move its content to a separate `INSTALL.md` file, see [TRG 1.02](trg-1-02.md).
- If your project is too complex to be described in a single `README.md` file, it may be beneficial to relocate specific sections to a dedicated `docs/` folder.
- If your project has multiple component repositories (e.g. frontend and backend), link the other repositories in your leading repository in your `README.md` mutually.

In summary, a good README is a crucial component of any repository, serving as a gateway for users and contributors to understand, use, and potentially contribute to your project. It's a fundamental part of effective project communication and collaboration.

Further [example](https://www.makeareadme.com/) on how to create your `README.md` file.
