---
title: TRG 1.05 - Architecture Documentation
sidebar_position: 1
---

:::caution
Proposed release date: 30th of March 2024
:::

| Status   | Created     | Post-History                                          |
|----------|-------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| Active   | 22-Apr-2024 |                                                       |
| Draft    | 26-Mar-2024 | Transferred from Release Acceptance Criteria into TRG |

## Why

Proper Architecture Documentation is necessary to support architects and operation teams for their decisions making processes and operative tasks. It therefore provides information like context, integration interfaces and intended usage of the component. We follow the good practice to document the Architecture of components.

## Description

Eclipse Tractus-X is using the [arc42](https://arc42.org/) documentation template. If you are not yet familiar with it, see [arc42.org](https://arc42.org/) for an introduction and guidance

In order to pragmatically start or update your Architecture documentation, consult [arc42](https://arc42.org/). Architecture documentation **must** be maintained in a directory named `/docs/architecture` in the leading product repository. Within the Architecture folder the structure of the arc42 template **shall** be applied. Follow the guidance to understand, WHAT and HOW to document.

- The Architecture Documentation **must** be stored in the folder: `/docs/architecture`
  - It is up-to-date for every release
  - English is a **must**
- The `/docs/README.md` describes shortly what documentation is available

## Best Practice

- Provide each chapter of the arc42 documentation as single `.md` file named after the chapter
- Favor diagrams as mermaid block in `.md` files directly over image files, where possible
- Have a look to peer repositories within Tractus-X for inspiration
- Anchor a link to your architecture documentation within your `README.md` (see [TRG 1.01](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/release/trg-1/trg-1-1))
- The architecture documentation is in sync with the latest released version of the component. It is checked and updated, once an up-revision is foreseen
