---
title: TRG 1.09 - Migration Guide
sidebar_position: 1
---

:::caution
Proposed release date: "mandatory after": tbd
:::

| Status     | Created      | Post-History                           |
|------------|--------------|----------------------------------------|
| Draft      | 12-March-2025 | Initial contribution                  |

## Why

IT operations managers and end-users of a component need a way to understand the impact of a new release on their work. This could be a required database migration, a change in an API call or system behavior.

Those changes aren't obvious just based on a changelog ([TRG 1.03](https://eclipse-tractusx.github.io/docs/release/trg-1/trg-1-3)) that usually only list all PRs within a release.

## Description

A migration guide **must** contain all relevant information for IT operation managers of a component to migrate an existing component from the previous to the new version. It must be placed in a directory named `/docs/admin'.

It **must** also contain all relevant changes for end-users, such as changed API calls, component behaviour, added/deprecated customer facing features etc.

The migration guide shall _explain_ relevant changes to operators and users and not simply list them. 

## Best Practices

- A migration guide should support IT operations management and guide the efforts for updating dependent tools and processes.
- There should be a dedicated migration guide per release that contains relevant changes for IT operations managers or end users : E.g. From 1.1.x -> 1.2.x, 1.2.x -> 2.0.x etc.
- A migration guide should only explain those changes that require an action by IT operations managers or end-users of a component. It should not be a duplication of the changelog.
