---
title: TRG 8.00 - Security Scanning Toolchain
---

| Status | Created     | Post-History                         |
|--------|-------------|--------------------------------------|
| Active | 26-Feb-2024 | Initial release                      |

## Why

Our primary aim is to improve security and define best practices across the Tractus-X ecosystem.

## Description

A security scanning toolchain is a collection of tools and processes that are used to scan software applications for security vulnerabilities. These tools can be used at various stages of the software development lifecycle (**SDLC**), from development to deployment and beyond.

### Emphasized Guidelines for Optimizing Security GitHub Actions

Following, here are specific guidelines and best practices for developers:

1.**Action Failures:** Actions should only fail if there is an error with the Action "Engine" itself or if there is a misconfiguration in the workflow. Failures should not occur based solely on high-severity findings.

2.**Manual Execution:** Include the on: workflow_dispatch option in all workflows. This allows you to manually trigger workflows whenever necessary.

3.**Scheduling Workflows:** Workflows should run frequently. Ideally, they should be set to execute once nightly. At a minimum, they should run once per week. Configure the on: schedule option to achieve this frequency.

4.**Exclusions:** Do not exclude files or directories from scans. If false positives are detected, they can be simply ignored. However, when pushing documentation to the main branch, the workflows do not need to be executed. For such cases, configure the exclude option.

5.**Pull Requests (PRs):** It's not mandatory for workflows to run with every PR. Nonetheless, the Secret Scan is strongly recommended and deemed sufficient.

6.**Target Scanning:** Avoid over-scanning. Focusing on scanning the releases and the main branch from which releases are made is adequate.

7.**Issue Reporting:** Should developers encounter issues during scanning or have questions regarding tool usage, they are encouraged to create an issue in our repository. An appropriate issue template has been provided to streamline this process.

By adhering to these guidelines, developers can efficiently integrate GitHub actions into their workflow, ensuring optimal security without compromising productivity.

:::caution

To pass the quality gates, all **critical**, **high** and **medium** security vulnerabilities **must be mitigated**.
This generic statement may conflict with [TRG 4.02](/docs/release/trg-4/trg-4-02) base images that apply to containers scans.
The statement from [TRG 4.02](/docs/release/trg-4/trg-4-02) **prevails**.

:::

## Tools that we’re using

- ### SAST (Static Application Security Testing)

Tools analyze source code or compiled binaries to identify potential vulnerabilities

**Open-Source**: [CodeQL](/docs/release/trg-8/trg-8-01), [Snyk](/docs/release/trg-8/trg-8-02)

- ### SCA (Software Composition Analysis)

Tools examine the software components

**Open-Source**: [Snyk](/docs/release/trg-8/trg-8-02)

- ### IaC (Infrastructure as Code)

Tools that check the configuration files that define the infrastructure components of an application

**Open-Source**: [KICS](/docs/release/trg-8/trg-8-03), [Snyk](/docs/release/trg-8/trg-8-02)

- ### Secret Scanning

Tools designed to search for and identify sensitive information, known as secrets, within code repositories

**Open-Source**: [GitGuardian](/docs/release/trg-8/trg-8-04)

- ### Container Scanner

Tools that scan the container images and the running containers

**Open-Source**: [Trivy](/docs/release/trg-8/trg-8-05), [Snyk](/docs/release/trg-8/trg-8-02)

:::tip

Security is not a one-time activity, but a continuous process that requires constant attention and improvement.
Even if you cannot perform a full **security assessment** for each product every release, you should at least follow basic security practices.

:::
